.TH prg2wav 1 "4th July, 1999"
.SH NAME
prg2wav \- convert PC emulator files to a Commodore 64 tape
.SH SYNOPSIS
prg2wav -h|-v
.P
prg2wav -l file [file...]
.P
prg2wav [-i] [-o output_file_name] file [file...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
If the
.B -l
option is not specified,
.I prg2wav
scans each file given on the command line and, if it is a .PRG, a .P00 or
a .T64 with a single used entry, converts it to a sound (by default) or a .WAV
file (if the
.B
-o
option is used). If it is a .T64 with more than one used entry,
.I prg2wav
interactively asks which entries should be converted, and converts them.
The entries must be given as a comma-separated list of ranges, where a range
can be:
.TP
*
a number
.TP
* 
.BR lower_bound-upper_bound,
where
.B
lower_bound
and
.B
upper_bound
can be either empty or numbers. If
.B
lower_bound
is empty, it is assumed to be 1. If
.B
upper_bound
is empty, it is assumed to be the total number of entries in the .T64 file.
.PP
If the
.B
-l
option is used,
.I prg2wav
will list the contents of each file in the command line. For .PRG, it will
display the start and end addresses. For .P00, it will display the start and
end addresses and the C64 name. For .T64, it will display the number of total
and used entries, the tape image name and, for each entry, the entry number,
the name and the start and end addresses.
.P
.I prg2wav
will only recognize standard entries in .T64 files (not memory snapshots).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h
Show a help message and exit successfully.
.TP
.B -i
Generate an inverted waveform. Some soundcards invert the signal
when playing back, i.e. they turn positive impulses into negative ones and vice
versa. If a normal waveform is played back with such a soundcard, a C64 will
not be able to recognize it. If an inverted waveform is played back with such
a soundcard, the soundcard will invert it again, turning it into a normal
waveform, so a C64 will recognize it. If you get no results without the
.B -i
option, try enabling it.
.TP
.B -l
Do not create a .WAV file, but show the contents of the input files.
.TP
.BI \-o " output\_file\_name"
Use
.I
output\_file\_name
as output. If
.I
output\_file\_name
does not end with
.I .WAV
or
.IR .wav ,
.I .wav
will be appended at the end.
.TP
.B -v
Show version and copyright info and exit successfully
.SH AUTHOR
Fabrizio Gennari (fabrigennari@iol.it)
.SH REFERENCES
.I http://www.fairlight.to/docs/text/formats.zip
.IP
Peter Schepers' guide to Commodore 64 file formats
.SH SEE ALSO
.B wav2prg
(1)
